As with activity classification,
we'll build features and throw those features into
a classifier to detect an abnormal heart rhythm.
Except this time it will be a two class classifier and we'll use
QRS locations as the input or more specifically,
we'll use the time between two QRS complexes known
as the RR interval or sometimes the innervate interval.
So the input to our algorithm will be derived from
the output of the Pan-Tompkins algorithm.
Our algorithm will include some of the features in these papers
that were entries into the computing and cardiology challenge.
Recall that the RR interval time series is in irregularly sampled signal
because we get a new measurement at each heartbeat known at some fixed interval in time.
As you'll soon see, many of the features we want
can be computed on an irregular time series,
but some especially frequency domain features cannot.
In that case, we'll first have to make this uniform using
interpolation before we can compute our frequency domain features.
Let's take a look at the features that we actually want to build.
We can separate them into time domain and frequency domain.
The first few time domain features are mostly
just summary statistics on our RR interval time series.
We want the minimum, the maximum,
the median, average, and standard deviation.
We also want the number of our interval outliers.
We'll say an interval is an outlier if it's greater than 1.2
times the average RR interval in the EKG record.
We also want the root mean square of the difference between adjacent intervals.
Finally, we want the percent of
RR interval differences that are greater than 50 milliseconds.
Before we can compute our frequency domain features,
we'll first need to regularize RR interval time series so that we can take the FFT of it.
We want to interpolate the interval time series onto
a regular four hertz grid and then the features we want will
be the magnitude of the largest frequency component between 0.04 hertz and 0.15 hertz,
as well as the frequency at which that component occurs.
Then we want these values for the band between 0.15 and 0.4 hertz.
So I'll leave the feature computation code for you to do in the next exercise.
Then in the next video, we'll pick this back up with the implementation.